[Music]
boy don't you wish they had offered this
class in high school
how to pass a lie-detector test when it
matters most oh you probably didn't go
to my high school talk about tough even
the marching band couldn't pass through
the metal detectors you know even if
you're convinced you'll never be in a
position where you'll need to take a lie
detector test you can't be sure what the
future holds now kanya this type of
testing is often used by big
corporations
when considering applicants for a
certain job or doing internal
investigations on staff the police
military private investigators security
agencies and intelligence services also
use the polygraph to get truthful
answers out of people so just in case
you ever find yourself in the hot seat
don't you think it would be a good idea
to be prepared
oh yeah it's absolutely possible to
study for these things all you got to do
is watch this video yeah stick around to
the end for a helpful bonus to know
under which circumstances you can
actually refuse to take the test and
before we start go ahead and hit that
big red button to subscribe to our
Channel don't forget the notification
bell either this way you'll always be in
the know when a new video pops up on the
bright side of life so how does a
polygraph work well the first lie
detector was invented in 1906 by a
cardiologist named Sir James McKenzie
after a few years of fine-tuning the
technology he created was developed
enough to introduce to the world the
polygraph machine that we know to this
day in 1992 the lie detector was
computerized which greatly contributed
to its effectiveness and accuracy of
course a polygraph can't really detect
the lie itself it only captures
physiological changes that occur in the
body when a person is lying these
changes can include a fast pulse
sweating unusual breathing and
my blood pressure modern lie detectors
can recognize up to 50 different types
of reactions down to the expansion of
the tiny capillaries throughout your
body still most companies use results
based on a standard set of reactions
experts say that interpreting the
results is more of an art rather than a
science and that's because the result
heavily depend on the qualifications and
experience of a polygraph examiner their
task is to select the right questions to
match each personality to take into
account the differences in people's
physiology and to be able to interpret
them correctly if a truly qualified
professional is examining you during a
lie-detector test the accuracy reaches
up to 98% as for the test itself it's
nothing like what you see on the big
screen
you know the criminal is all wired up
while the detective screams at him and
dramatically pounds his fists on the
table in a passionate desire for truth
and justice now the reality is that
testing somebody with the help of a lie
detector takes long hours and it's done
in a very calm environment the questions
are specific precise and really well
structured anyway
let's say there are certain things you
wouldn't like to share with your
potential employer in this case despite
the precision of modern polygraph
machines you can prepare yourself for
the test and advance so here are six
ways to prepare for a polygraph test
number one be physically ready get ready
24 hours before the test so that your
body is in tip-top shape get a good
night's sleep make it at least eight
hours don't skip any meals before the
test you don't want to be hungry during
it don't overstuff yourself full of food
right before it either take your usual
medicines wear comfortable clothing now
as you can see comfort is key stick to
your usual regimen so that your body
doesn't feel any unusual changes this
will help keep your heartbeat from
going awry do you usually jog in the
morning don't skip it can't go without
your morning coffee well don't go
without it today either
number two let yourself feel nervous
most of the time when people are lying
their heart literally races they start
to pant their blood pressure skyrockets
and they sweat profusely but these
physiological reactions are also typical
for situations when you feel anxious
feeling nervous before or during a
lie-detector test is absolutely normal
plus it can even help you pass the test
the results of people who feel anxious
while answering each question turn out
to be the most accurate according to
statistics if you feel that your results
might be interpreted incorrectly because
of your nervousness then the following
method might help to check your basic
physiological reactions you'll be asked
some controlled questions it's pretty
easy to distinguish them from the
relevant questions because they're
usually more general in nature be
especially attentive at this stage if
you make yourself nervous while
answering the controlled questions then
later on the polygraph will interpret
your answers to the relevant questions
as truthful especially if you try to
keep calm when answering them an example
of a controlled question is have you
ever stolen anything as for a relevant
question did you ever steal anything at
your previous place of employment so how
exactly can you make yourself feel
anxious on a dime well try thinking
about something unpleasant or scary or
you can always bring to mind the most
embarrassing day of your life if that
doesn't get your heart racing then you
must have nerves of steel
number three try not to lie about
details if you've got nothing to hide or
be embarrassed about try to answer all
of the questions honestly the more
truthful things you say the more precise
the results will be people tend to lie
about small stuff because they don't
take the details very seriously
examinees are too worried about being
asked trap questions while taking the
test since they're convinced that that's
what they should actually be careful
about but experts say that all the
questions are really simple and there
shouldn't be any unexpected moments at
least according to polygraph testing
ethics not many people know this since
it's always somehow omitted in Hollywood
movies but you're actually allowed to
get familiar with the questions before
the test so they don't feel nervous
during it so before the test itself
you'll have a pretest interview at this
stage experts will explain to you the
mechanics of the process and you'll be
able to get acquainted with the
questions man if only teachers would let
you do that in school huh number four
don't rush it each question can be asked
anywhere from three to six times during
the test that's why there's no need to
hurry when giving your answers the
feeling of haste itself can distort the
results listen to each question till the
end try to understand it and take your
time with the answer by taking a moment
to pause before replying you give
yourself an opportunity to determine
what kind of question you've been asked
insignificant like what's your name
controlled have you ever lied to get
benefits for instance or relevant such
as have you ever falsified documents at
your previous job besides that keep your
answers short and simple yes and no
answers are the most relevant for the
majority of test questions anyway you'll
most likely feel the desire to elaborate
on your answers please resist this
temptation
don't go into detail however hard the
examiner tries to make you slip don't
joke or be over friendly and don't give
away more information than strictly
necessary some polygraph examiner's like
to use dirty tricks to make you admit
that you're lying for example they might
convince you that they can see that
you're lying don't fall for it there's
nothing worse than a confession
so don't budge number 5 imagine
something pleasant this is a pretty
successful method but only for those
lucky few who can really control
themselves surprisingly enough it turns
out that being nervous and causing
negative reactions is easier than
thinking about something positive
well considering a question and
realizing that you're going to have to
lie go to your happy place so that you
feel more relaxed during the test create
some kind of careless world in your
imagination to help you keep calm that
way your body will react perfectly
number 6 don't use any physical tricks
as a rule getting negative body
reactions while taking the test can be
achieved the internet is full of all
kinds of recommendations put a tack in
your shoe and step on it every time you
need to get the right reaction bite your
tongue or tense up your muscles you've
probably heard of these tips before but
how useful are they really well we hate
to break it to you but these tricks
don't baffle experienced experts at all
on the contrary manipulative schemes
like these are super noticeable in fact
examiner's often ask people to take
their shoes off since they're all too
familiar with these popular ploys not to
mention a polygraph is capable of
distinguishing a deceptive reaction to
physical pain if you get caught
red-handed
the test will probably be rescheduled or
your final results might be evaluated
more strictly taking into consideration
all of the tricks that you tried to pull
so basically it's not worth it
after the polygraph test
now after you've taken the test a
post-test interview will await you a
reviewer will come to the room to
discuss your results they might ask you
some questions about the responses they
deemed inconclusive or suspicious it's
also the reviewers job to examine your
emotional and physical state it's often
at this very moment when they may try to
play psychological games with you by
saying that they know you were lying so
stand your ground bonus when should you
not take a polygraph test
in some cases taking a lie-detector test
is ill-advised since the results will be
distorted or the process itself might
negatively affect a person you should
not take a polygraph test if you have
heart disease are pregnant have a
respiratory illness even the common cold
are epileptic suffer from general pain
are being forced to take the test
against your will if any of these apply
to you don't be afraid to say no so
would you agree to a polygraph test if
it meant getting your dream job if yes
hit that like button if not tell us why
in the comments below and feel free to
share your experience if you've ever
taken a lie-detector test before we want
to hear about it and that's no lie see
you next time on the bright side of life
you